Model registry blog post (#159)
zenml-io/blog.zenml.io: _posts/2023-04-07-model-registry.md

---
layout: post
author: "Safoine El khabich"
title: "Productionalizing LangChain and LlamaIndex with a ZenML MLOps Pipeline to Help Community Slack Support"

> description: "We decided to explore how the emerging technologies around Large Language Models (LLMs) could seamlessly fit into ZenML's MLOps workflows and standards. We created and deployed a Slack bot to provide community support."

Reviewer: These both need changing..

category: zenml
tags: zenml evergreen model-registry production
publish_date: April 10, 2023

> date: 2023-03-31T00:02:00Z

Reviewer: These need updating, and also the file name

thumbnail: /assets/posts/slackbot/slackbot-small.png
image:

>   path: /assets/posts/slackbot/slackbot.png

Reviewer: Needs artwork

---

> **Last updated:** March 31, 2023

Reviewer: For updating

> ![*Image generated by [Midjourney v5](https://www.midjourney.com/)*](/assets/posts/slackbot/slackbot-small.png)

Reviewer: Needs changing

> Machine learning is revolutionizing various industries, but managing and deploying ML models can be a challenging task. In the world of MLOps, a model registry is a key component that streamlines the management, deployment, and lifecycle of machine learning models. This blog post discusses the importance of model registries, how they fit into the ZenML MLOps stack, and the benefits they bring to your workflow. Additionally, we explore the integration of MLflow Model Registry with ZenML and how to deploy and utilize it effectively in your projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Machine learning is revolutionizing various industries, but managing and deploying ML models can be a challenging task. In the world of MLOps, a model registry is a key component that streamlines the management, deployment, and lifecycle of machine learning models. This blog post discusses the importance of model registries, how they fit into the ZenML MLOps stack, and the benefits they bring to your workflow. Additionally, we explore the integration of the MLflow Model Registry with ZenML and how to deploy and utilize it effectively in your projects.
```

## Why Model Registries Are Important

Model registries are centralized storage solutions for managing and tracking machine learning models throughout their development and deployment stages. They help track different model versions and configurations and enable reproducibility. By storing metadata such as version, configuration, and metrics, model registries streamline the management of trained models.

> In ZenML, model registries are Stack Components that allow for easy retrieval, loading, and deployment of trained models. They also provide information on the pipeline in which the model was trained and how to reproduce it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In ZenML, the model registry is a Stack Component that allows for easy retrieval, loading, and deployment of trained models. It also provides information on the pipeline in which the model was trained and how to reproduce it. 
```

Model registries offer a visual way to manage and track model metadata, especially when using a remote orchestrator.

## How Model Registries Fit within the ZenML MLOps Stack

ZenML provides a unified abstraction for model registries, enabling consistent handling and management of model groups, versions, and stages, regardless of the underlying registry tool or platform. Model registries are an optional component in the ZenML stack that are tied to the experiment tracker. To use model registries in your stack, you need to register a model registry with the same flavor as your experiment tracker.

In ZenML, model registries simplify model lifecycle management by making it easier to register, track, and version your trained, deployed, and retired models in a central, organized, and searchable repository. They also store metadata and runtime dependencies for trained models, which makes deployment processes more straightforward.

> ## Benefits of Model Registries in Your Workflow
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Benefits of Model Registries in Your Workflow

Some good reasons why you might want to work with a model registry as part of your stack include:

```

**Fast Deployment:** Model registries bridge the gap between experimentation and production activities, allowing for faster rollout of production models. They store trained models for quick and easy retrieval by any integrated application or service.

**Simplified Model Lifecycle Management:** Model registries enable you to register, track, and version your models in a central repository, store metadata and runtime dependencies, and build automated pipelines for continuous integration, delivery, and training.

> **Improved Collaboration:** Model registries provide a central UI for teams to collaborate on models, bridging the gap between machine learning and operations. This unifying component reduces friction in the hand-off of production-ready models from experimentation to production environments.

Reviewer: Btw, side comment, but how is the model registry represented in the dashboard?

**Model Governance:** Model registries make it easier to compare models running in production (champion models) to freshly trained models (or challenger models) in the staging environment, facilitating better model governance.

## Integrating the MLflow Model Registry with ZenML

The MLflow Model Registry is a powerful integration within the ZenML stack that facilitates the management and tracking of machine learning models and their artifacts. It is typically employed during the experimentation, quality assurance, and production phases. The MLflow Model Registry enhances collaboration on model development and deployment, tracks model usage in various environments, and monitors performance over time. It streamlines the deployment process to both production and staging environments.

To deploy the MLflow Model Registry, first, install the MLflow integration on your local machine:

```python
zenml integration install mlflow -y
```

After installing the MLflow integration, register an MLflow Model Registry component in your stack:

```python
zenml model-registry register mlflow_model_registry --flavor=mlflow
```

> Utilizing MLflow Model Registry with ZenML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using the MLflow Model Registry with ZenML
```

There are several ways to use the MLflow Model Registry in your ZenML pipelines. You can use the built-in step, the ZenML CLI to register your model manually, or call the Model Registry API within a custom step in your pipeline.

### Using the Built-in Step

> The MLflow Model Registry is a built-in step in ZenML pipelines. To use it, simply add the `model_register` step to your pipeline:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MLflow Model Registry is a built-in step in ZenML pipelines. To use it, simply add the `mlflow_model_register_step` step to your pipeline:
```

Shouldn't it be this?

┠────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┨
┃ STAGE                  │ None                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ┃
┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┷━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛
```

Finally to delete a registered model or a specific model version, 
you can use the `zenml model-registry models delete REGISTERED_MODEL_NAME` and 
`zenml model-registry models delete-version REGISTERED_MODEL_NAME -v VERSION` 
commands respectively.

## Conclusion

> Incorporating a model registry into your ZenML MLOps stack offers numerous benefits. It can speed up deployment, simplify model lifecycle management, enhance collaboration, and improve model governance. By integrating the MLflow Model Registry with ZenML, you can further streamline the management and deployment of your machine learning models. Embrace the power of model registries in your machine learning workflows and take advantage of their comprehensive capabilities.

Reviewer: You should include a link to the docs for model registry, also point people to the example where they can get going with it, and then also include a link to slack for if people have questions.
